docs/docs_vs_code_iot_hub/Lab_2_Send_Telemetry_to_Azure_IoT_Hub/README.md, before:

# Lab 2: Connect a room environment monitor to Azure IoT

---

**Author**: [Dave Glover](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/advocates/dave-glover?WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover), Microsoft Cloud Developer Advocate, [@dglover](https://twitter.com/dglover)

---

## Azure Sphere Learning Path

Each module assumes you have completed the previous module.

[Home](../../../README.md)

* Lab 0: [Lab Set Up](../Lab_0_Introduction_and_Lab_Set_Up/README.md)
* Lab 1: [Introduction to Azure Sphere development](../Lab_1_Visual_Studio_and_Azure_Sphere/README.md)
* Lab 2: [Connect a room environment monitor to Azure IoT](../Lab_2_Send_Telemetry_to_Azure_IoT_Hub/README.md)
* Lab 3: [Set the room virtual thermostat with Azure IoT Device Twins](../Lab_3_Control_Device_with_Device_Twins/README.md)
* Lab 4: [Remote reboot your Azure Sphere with Azure IoT Direct Methods](../Lab_4_Control_Device_with_Direct_Methods/README.md)
* Lab 5: [Integrate FreeRTOS Real-time room sensors with Azure IoT](../Lab_5_FreeRTOS_and_Inter-Core_Messaging/README.md)
* Lab 6: [Integrate Azure RTOS Real-time room sensors with Azure IoT](../Lab_6_AzureRTOS_and_Inter-Core_Messaging/README.md)
* Lab 7: [Connect and control your room environment monitor with Azure IoT](../Lab_7_Azure_IoT_Central_RTOS_Integration/README.md)
<!-- * Lab 8: [Over-the-air (OTA) Deployment](/docs/Lab_8_Over-the-air-deployment/README.md) -->

---

## What you will learn

You will learn how to build a High-Level [Azure Sphere](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/azure-sphere/?WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover) application that connects and sends telemetry to [Azure IoT Hub](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-ca/services/iot-hub/?WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover).

---

## Prerequisites

The lab assumes you understand the content from [Lab 1: Introduction to Azure Sphere development](../Lab_1_Visual_Studio_and_Azure_Sphere/README.md).

---

## Introduction to the Learning Path Labs

There are a number of Learning Path libraries that support these labs. These Learning Path C functions are prefixed with **lp_**, typedefs and enums are prefixed with **LP_**. 

The Learning Path libraries are open source and contributions are welcome.

The Learning Path libraries are built from the [Azure Sphere Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sphere-samples) and aim to demonstrate best practices.

The Learning Path libraries are **not** part of the official Azure Sphere libraries or samples.

---

## Tutorial Overview

1. How to create Azure IoT Hub and Device Provisioning Services.
2. Enabling trust between your Azure Sphere Tenant and the Device Provisioning Service for automatic device enrollment.
3. Explicitly allowing connections to Azure IoT endpoints.
4. Configuring the Azure Sphere Application to connect to Azure IoT Hub.

---

## Key Concepts

### Azure IoT

Your Azure Sphere device can securely connect and communicate with cloud services. Azure Sphere includes built-in library support for Azure IoT Hub. This lab focuses on Azure IoT Hub.

### Azure IoT Hub

[Azure IoT Hub](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-ca/services/iot-hub/?WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover) enables highly secure and reliable communication between your IoT application and the devices it manages. Azure IoT Hub provides a cloud-hosted solution back-end to connect virtually any device. Extend your solution from the cloud to the edge with per-device authentication, built-in device management, and scaled provisioning

### Device Provisioning Service

This project leverages the [Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (PDS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure-sphere/app-development/use-azure-iot?WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover). The Device Provisioning Service (DPS) enables zero-touch, just-in-time, large scale device provisioning.

---

## Step 1: Create an Azure Subscription

If you do not have an Azure Subscription then [create an Azure Subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/?WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover). Students can sign up for a free [Azure for Students](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/students/?WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover) subscription that does not require credit card verification.

---

## Step 2: Prepare Azure resources

You can prepare Azure cloud resources with the Azure CLI, the Azure Portal Web interface, or deployment templates. For this module, we will be using an Azure deployment template. Click the **Deploy to Azure** button to deploy a Device Provisioning Service and a linked IoT Hub.

[![Deploy to Azure](https://azuredeploy.net/deploybutton.png)](https://azuredeploy.net/?repository=https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/Azure-Sphere-Developer-Learning-Path/blob/master/docs-vs-code-iot-hub/Lab_2_Send_Telemetry_to_Azure_IoT_Central/setup) 

[![Deploy to Azure](https://aka.ms/deploytoazurebutton)](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fgloveboxes%2FAzure-Sphere-Learning-Path%2Fmaster%2Fdocs%2Fdocs_vs_code_iot_hub%2FLab_2_Send_Telemetry_to_Azure_IoT_Hub%2Fsetup%2Fazuredeploy.json)

1. Select or create a new resource group

2. Choose the site located closest to you.

3. Select the IoT Hub Tier. The default IoT Hub tier is the free **F1** tier. You can only have one free IoT Hub per subscription. If you already have a free IoT Hub then either select S1 ([pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/iot-hub/)) or delete your existing free IoT Hub before proceeding.

4. Click **Next**.

5. Click **Deploy**. The deployment will take three to four minutes to complete.

6. When the deployment has completed, click on **Manage your resources**. You will see two services listed in the Azure Web Portal. The Device Provisioning Service (DPS) and the IoT Hub. Appended to the resource names is a random string to ensure the names are globally unique.

   ![The illustration shows Azure IoT resources.](resources/azure-iot-resources.png)

7. **DON'T** close the Azure Web portal because you will need to access it again.

---

## Step 3: Link your Azure Sphere Tenant to the Device Provisioning Service

You need to set up a trust relationship between your Azure Sphere tenant and your IoT Device Provisioning Service.

Devices claimed by your Azure Sphere tenant will automatically be enrolled with the linked IoT Hub by the Device Provisioning Service when the device first connects.

### Download the Azure Sphere Tenant authentication CA certificate

1. Open an **Azure Sphere Developer Command Prompt**
2. Be sure to make a note of the current directory, or change to the Azure Sphere Learning path directory. You will need the name of this directory in the next step. 
3. Download the Certificate Authority (CA) certificate for your Azure Sphere tenant:

    ```bash
    azsphere tenant download-CA-certificate --output CAcertificate.cer
    ```

### Upload the Azure Sphere Tenant certificate to Azure Device Provisioning Service

1. Switch back to the Azure web portal.
2. Click on the Device Provisioning Service (**DPS**) resource link.
3. Click **Certificates** from the Device Provisioning Service sidebar menu.
4. Click **+ Add**.
    ![](resources/dps-certificate-add.png)
5. Name your certificate, and then select the **CAcertificate.cer** file you downloaded in the previous step to upload into the device provisioning service.
6. Click **Save**.
    ![](resources/dps-certificate-upload.png)


### Verify the uploaded certificate

1. Click on the certificate you just uploaded to display the certificate details.
2. From the certificate details panel, scroll down and click **Generate Verification Code**.
3. Copy the verification code to the clipboard.

    ![](resources/dps-certificate-verify.png)

### Generate the verification certificate

1. Return to the Azure Sphere Developer Command Prompt.

2. Run the following command, replacing &lt;code&gt; with the **Verification Code** you just copied to the clipboard. This will generate a verification certificate that you need to upload to the Device Provisioning Service.

    ```bash
    azsphere tenant download-validation-certificate --output ValidationCertification.cer --verificationcode <code>
    ```

### Upload the verification certificate

1. Return to the Azure web portal.
2. Click the **Verification Certificate** file selector icon.
3. From the file manager, select the **ValidationCertification.cer** certificate you generated in the previous step.
4. Click the **Verify** button.

    ![](resources/dps-certificate-verify-upload.png)

---

## Step 4: Create a Device Provisioning Service Enrollment Group

From the Azure Web portal.

1. Select **Manage Enrollments** from the Device Provisioning Service sidebar menu.
2. Click **+ Add enrollment group**.
3. Name the enrollment group.
4. Select the primary certificate you just uploaded.
5. Click Save.

    ![](resources/dps-enrollment-group-add.png)

---

## Step 5: Explicitly allow connections to Azure IoT Endpoints

Remember, applications on Azure Sphere are locked down by default, including hardware and network endpoints. You must explicitly allow connections to the network endpoints of your Azure IoT Hub **and** your Device Provisioning Service otherwise your Azure Sphere application will not be able to connect.

You must allow communications to the following **three** Azure IoT network endpoints:

1. The Device Provisioning Service **Global device endpoint**.
2. The Device Provisioning Service **Service endpoint**.
3. The IoT Hub **Hostname** endpoint.

Follow these steps:

1. Return to the Azure Web Portal.
2. Select **Overview** from the Device Provisioning Service sidebar menu.
3. Copy the Device Provisioning Service **Global device endpoint** URI to _Notepad_.
4. Copy the Device Provisioning Service **Service endpoint** URI to _Notepad_.
5. Copy the **ID Scope** to _Notepad_.
6. Click on the **Resource group URL** to return to the resource group.
    ![](resources/dps-overview.png)
7. Select the **IoT Hub** resource.
8. Copy the IoT Hub **Hostname** URL to _Notepad_.
    ![](resources/iot-hub-endpoint-url.png)

---

## Step 6: Get the Azure Sphere Tenant ID

We need the ID of the Azure Sphere Tenant that is now trusted by the Device Provisioning Service.

1. From the **Azure Sphere Developer Command Prompt**, run **```azsphere tenant show-selected```**.
    * The output of this command will look similar to the following.
        ```text
        Default Azure Sphere tenant ID is 'yourSphereTenant' (99999999-e021-43ce-9999-fa9999499994).
        ```
    * The **Tenant ID** is the numeric value inside the parentheses.
2. Copy the **Tenant ID** to _Notepad_ as you will need it soon.

---

## Open Lab 2

### Step 1: Start Visual Studio Code

![](resources/vs-code-start.png)

### Step 2: Open the lab project

1. Click **Open folder**.
2. Open the Azure-Sphere lab folder.
4. Open the **Lab_2_Send_Telemetry_to_Azure_IoT** folder.
5. Click **Select Folder** button to open the project.

### Step 3: Set your developer board configuration

These labs support developer boards from AVNET and Seeed Studio. You need to set the configuration that matches your developer board.

The default developer board configuration is for the AVENT Azure Sphere Starter Kit. If you have this board, there is no additional configuration required.

1. Open CMakeList.txt
	![](resources/vs-code-open-cmake.png)
2. Add a # at the beginning of the set AVNET line to disable it.
3. Uncomment the **set** command that corresponds to your Azure Sphere developer board.

	```text
	set(AVNET TRUE "AVNET Azure Sphere Starter Kit")                
	# set(SEEED_STUDIO_RDB TRUE "Seeed Studio Azure Sphere MT3620 Development Kit (aka Reference Design Board or rdb)")
	# set(SEEED_STUDIO_MINI TRUE "Seeed Studio Azure Sphere MT3620 Mini Dev Board")
	```	

4. Save the file. This will auto-generate the CMake cache.

### Step 4: Configure the Azure Sphere Application

1. Open the **app_manifest.json** file

    ![](resources/vs-code-open-app-manifest.png)

2. Update the Azure IoT Application connection properties.
    * Update **CmdArgs** with your Device Provisioning Service **ID Scope** you copied to Notepad.
    * Update **DeviceAuthentication** with your **Azure Sphere Tenant ID**. Remember, this was the numeric value output from the ```azsphere tenant show-selected``` command that you copied to Notepad.

3. Update the network endpoints **AllowedConnections** with your Azure IoT Hub and Device Provisioning endpoint URLs you copied to Notepad.

4. **Review** your updated manifest_app.json file. It should look similar to the following.

    ```json
    {
        "SchemaVersion": 1,
        "Name": "AzureSphereIoTCentral",
        "ComponentId": "25025d2c-66da-4448-bae1-ac26fcdd3627",
        "EntryPoint": "/bin/app",
        "CmdArgs": [ "0ne0099999D" ],
        "Capabilities": {
            "Gpio": [
                "$BUTTON_A",
                "$BUTTON_B",
                "$LED2",
                "$NETWORK_CONNECTED_LED",
                "$LED_RED",
                "$LED_GREEN",
                "$LED_BLUE"
            ],
            "I2cMaster": [ "$I2cMaster2" ],
            "PowerControls": [ "ForceReboot" ],
            "AllowedConnections": [
                "global.azure-devices-provisioning.net",
                "<Your Device Provisioning Service Endpoint>",
                "<Your Azure IoT Hub Endpoint>"
            ],
            "DeviceAuthentication": "9d7e79eb-9999-43ce-9999-fa8888888894"
        },
        "ApplicationType": "Default"
    }
    ```

5. **IMPORTANT**. Copy the contents of your **app_manifest.json** file to **Notepad** as you will need this configuration information for the next labs.

---

## Understanding the Azure Sphere Application

### Sending telemetry to Azure IoT Hub

Open **main.c**, and scroll down to the **MeasureSensorHandler** function.

>Pro Tip. Use **Go to Symbol in Editor** in Visual Studio Code. Use the keyboard shortcut <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+O</kbd> and start typing *measure*. You will often see a function name listed twice in the dropdown. The first is the [function prototype declaration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Function_prototype#:~:text=In%20computer%20programming%2C%20a%20function,but%20omits%20the%20function%20body.), and the second is the implementation of the function.

![](resources/vs-code-function-navigate-measure-sensor-telemetry.png)

In the **MeasureSensorHandler** function there is a call to **SendMsgLedOn(msgBuffer);**.

```c
/// <summary>
/// Read sensor and send to Azure IoT
/// </summary>
static void MeasureSensorHandler(EventLoopTimer* eventLoopTimer)
{
	static int msgId = 0;
	static LP_ENVIRONMENT environment;
	static const char* MsgTemplate = "{ \"Temperature\": \"%3.2f\", \"Humidity\": \"%3.1f\", \"Pressure\":\"%3.1f\", \"Light\":%d, \"MsgId\":%d }";

	if (ConsumeEventLoopTimerEvent(eventLoopTimer) != 0)
	{
		lp_terminate(ExitCode_ConsumeEventLoopTimeEvent);
		return;
	}

	if (lp_readTelemetry(&environment))
	{
		if (snprintf(msgBuffer, JSON_MESSAGE_BYTES, MsgTemplate, environment.temperature, environment.humidity, environment.pressure, environment.light, msgId++) > 0)
		{
			SendMsgLedOn(msgBuffer);
		}
	}
}
```

Function **SendMsgLedOn** will turn on the send message LED, then **SendMsg(message)** is called to send a JSON formatted message to Azure IoT Hub.

```c
/// <summary>
/// Turn on LED2, send message to Azure IoT and set a one shot timer to turn LED2 off
/// </summary>
static void SendMsgLedOn(char* message)
{
	lp_gpioOn(&sendMsgLed);
	Log_Debug("%s\n", message);
	lp_sendMsg(message);
	lp_setOneShotTimer(&sendMsgLedOffOneShotTimer, &sendMsgLedBlinkPeriod);
}
```

---

## Deploying the Application to Azure Sphere

### Step 1: Start the app build deploy process

1. Ensure main.c is open.
2. Select **CMake: [Debug]: Ready** from the Visual Studio Code Status Bar.

	![](resources/vs-code-start-application.png)

3. From Visual Studio Code, press <kbd>F5</kbd> to build, deploy, start, and attached the remote debugger to the application now running the Azure Sphere device.

### Step 2: View debugger output

1. Open the Visual Studio Code **Output** tab to view the output from **Log_Debug** statements in the code.

	> Pro Tip. You can open the output window by using the Visual Studio Code <kbd>Ctrl+K Ctrl+H</kbd> shortcut or click the **Output** tab.
2. You will see the device negotiating security, and then it will start sending telemetry to Azure IoT Hub.

    > You may see a couple of *ERROR: failure to create IoTHub Handle* messages displayed. These messages occur while the connection to Azure IoT is being negotiated.

---

## Expected Device Behaviour

### Avnet Azure Sphere MT3620 Starter Kit

![](resources/avnet-azure-sphere.jpg)

1. The blue LED will start to blink.
2. LED3 will turn yellow when connected to Azure. 
3. Press **Button A** on the device to change the blink rate.

### Seeed Studio Azure Sphere MT3620 Development Kit

![](resources/seeed-studio-azure-sphere-rdb.jpg)

1. The green LED will start to blink.
2. The network LED will turn red when connected to Azure.
3. Press **Button A** on the device to change the blink rate.

### Seeed Studio MT3620 Mini Dev Board

![](resources/seeed-studio-azure-sphere-mini.png)

1. The green LED closest to the USB connector will start to blink.

---

## Step 3: View the device telemetry from the Azure Cloud Shell

1. You will need to know the name of the Azure IoT Hub you created. You can get the name from the Azure web portal.
    ![](resources/azure-iot-resources.png)
2. Open the Azure Cloud shell at [https://shell.azure.com](https://shell.azure.com).
3. In the Cloud Shell, run the [az extension add](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/extension?view=azure-cli-latest&WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover) command to add the Microsoft Azure IoT Extension to your CLI shell. The IoT Extension adds IoT Hub, IoT Edge, and IoT Device Provisioning Service (DPS) specific commands to Azure CLI.
    ```bash
    az extension add --name azure-iot
    ```
4. Start the IoT Hub Events Monitor with the following command. Be sure to use your IoT Hub name.
    ```bash
    az iot hub monitor-events --hub-name {your IoT Hub name}
    ```
5. Observe telemetry in the cloud. The output will be similar to the following screen.
    ![](resources/iot-hub-monitor-events.png)
6. Use <kbd>ctrl+c</kbd> to stop the event monitor.

---

## In Review

We learned the following:

1. How to create Azure IoT Hub and Device Provisioning Services.
2. Enabling trust between your Azure Sphere Tenant and the Device Provisioning Service for automatic device enrollment.
3. Explicitly allowing connections to Azure IoT endpoints.
4. Configuring the Azure Sphere Application to connect to Azure IoT Hub.

---

## Close Visual Studio

Now close **Close Visual Studio**.

---

## Finished 完了 fertig finito समाप्त terminado

Congratulations you have finished Lab 2.

![](resources/finished.jpg)

---

**[NEXT](../Lab_3_Control_Device_with_Device_Twins/README.md)**

---

Commit message:

update azure sdk certs and azure deploy

docs/docs_vs_code_iot_hub/Lab_2_Send_Telemetry_to_Azure_IoT_Hub/README.md, after:

# Lab 2: Connect a room environment monitor to Azure IoT

---

**Author**: [Dave Glover](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/advocates/dave-glover?WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover), Microsoft Cloud Developer Advocate, [@dglover](https://twitter.com/dglover)

---

## Azure Sphere Learning Path

Each module assumes you have completed the previous module.

[Home](../../../README.md)

* Lab 0: [Lab Set Up](../Lab_0_Introduction_and_Lab_Set_Up/README.md)
* Lab 1: [Introduction to Azure Sphere development](../Lab_1_Visual_Studio_and_Azure_Sphere/README.md)
* Lab 2: [Connect a room environment monitor to Azure IoT](../Lab_2_Send_Telemetry_to_Azure_IoT_Hub/README.md)
* Lab 3: [Set the room virtual thermostat with Azure IoT Device Twins](../Lab_3_Control_Device_with_Device_Twins/README.md)
* Lab 4: [Remote reboot your Azure Sphere with Azure IoT Direct Methods](../Lab_4_Control_Device_with_Direct_Methods/README.md)
* Lab 5: [Integrate FreeRTOS Real-time room sensors with Azure IoT](../Lab_5_FreeRTOS_and_Inter-Core_Messaging/README.md)
* Lab 6: [Integrate Azure RTOS Real-time room sensors with Azure IoT](../Lab_6_AzureRTOS_and_Inter-Core_Messaging/README.md)
* Lab 7: [Connect and control your room environment monitor with Azure IoT](../Lab_7_Azure_IoT_Central_RTOS_Integration/README.md)
<!-- * Lab 8: [Over-the-air (OTA) Deployment](/docs/Lab_8_Over-the-air-deployment/README.md) -->

---

## What you will learn

You will learn how to build a High-Level [Azure Sphere](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/azure-sphere/?WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover) application that connects and sends telemetry to [Azure IoT Hub](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-ca/services/iot-hub/?WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover).

---

## Prerequisites

The lab assumes you understand the content from [Lab 1: Introduction to Azure Sphere development](../Lab_1_Visual_Studio_and_Azure_Sphere/README.md).

---

## Introduction to the Learning Path Labs

There are a number of Learning Path libraries that support these labs. These Learning Path C functions are prefixed with **lp_**, typedefs and enums are prefixed with **LP_**. 

The Learning Path libraries are open source and contributions are welcome.

The Learning Path libraries are built from the [Azure Sphere Samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sphere-samples) and aim to demonstrate best practices.

The Learning Path libraries are **not** part of the official Azure Sphere libraries or samples.

---

## Tutorial Overview

1. How to create Azure IoT Hub and Device Provisioning Services.
2. Enabling trust between your Azure Sphere Tenant and the Device Provisioning Service for automatic device enrollment.
3. Explicitly allowing connections to Azure IoT endpoints.
4. Configuring the Azure Sphere Application to connect to Azure IoT Hub.

---

## Key Concepts

### Azure IoT

Your Azure Sphere device can securely connect and communicate with cloud services. Azure Sphere includes built-in library support for Azure IoT Hub. This lab focuses on Azure IoT Hub.

### Azure IoT Hub

[Azure IoT Hub](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-ca/services/iot-hub/?WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover) enables highly secure and reliable communication between your IoT application and the devices it manages. Azure IoT Hub provides a cloud-hosted solution back-end to connect virtually any device. Extend your solution from the cloud to the edge with per-device authentication, built-in device management, and scaled provisioning

### Device Provisioning Service

This project leverages the [Azure IoT Hub Device Provisioning Service (PDS)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure-sphere/app-development/use-azure-iot?WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover). The Device Provisioning Service (DPS) enables zero-touch, just-in-time, large scale device provisioning.

---

## Step 1: Create an Azure Subscription

If you do not have an Azure Subscription then [create an Azure Subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/?WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover). Students can sign up for a free [Azure for Students](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/students/?WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover) subscription that does not require credit card verification.

---

## Step 2: Prepare Azure resources

You can prepare Azure cloud resources with the Azure CLI, the Azure Portal Web interface, or deployment templates. For this module, we will be using an Azure deployment template. Click the **Deploy to Azure** button to deploy a Device Provisioning Service and a linked IoT Hub.

<!-- [![Deploy to Azure](https://azuredeploy.net/deploybutton.png)](https://azuredeploy.net/?repository=https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/Azure-Sphere-Developer-Learning-Path/blob/master/docs-vs-code-iot-hub/Lab_2_Send_Telemetry_to_Azure_IoT_Central/setup)  -->

[![Deploy to Azure](https://aka.ms/deploytoazurebutton)](https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fgloveboxes%2FAzure-Sphere-Learning-Path%2Fmaster%2Fdocs%2Fdocs_vs_code_iot_hub%2FLab_2_Send_Telemetry_to_Azure_IoT_Hub%2Fsetup%2Fazuredeploy.json)

1. Select or create a new resource group

2. Choose the site located closest to you.

3. Select the IoT Hub Tier. The default IoT Hub tier is the free **F1** tier. You can only have one free IoT Hub per subscription. If you already have a free IoT Hub then either select S1 ([pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/iot-hub/)) or delete your existing free IoT Hub before proceeding.

4. Click **Next**.

5. Click **Deploy**. The deployment will take three to four minutes to complete.

6. When the deployment has completed, click on **Manage your resources**. You will see two services listed in the Azure Web Portal. The Device Provisioning Service (DPS) and the IoT Hub. Appended to the resource names is a random string to ensure the names are globally unique.

   ![The illustration shows Azure IoT resources.](resources/azure-iot-resources.png)

7. **DON'T** close the Azure Web portal because you will need to access it again.

---

## Step 3: Link your Azure Sphere Tenant to the Device Provisioning Service

You need to set up a trust relationship between your Azure Sphere tenant and your IoT Device Provisioning Service.

Devices claimed by your Azure Sphere tenant will automatically be enrolled with the linked IoT Hub by the Device Provisioning Service when the device first connects.

### Download the Azure Sphere Tenant authentication CA certificate

1. Open an **Azure Sphere Developer Command Prompt**
2. Log into your Azure Sphere tenant if you have not already done so.

   ```
   azsphere login
   ```

3. Be sure to make a note of the current directory, or change to the Azure Sphere Learning path directory. You will need the name of this directory in the next step. 
4. Download the Certificate Authority (CA) certificate for your Azure Sphere tenant:

    ```bash
    azsphere ca-certificate download --output CAcertificate.cer
    ```

### Upload the Azure Sphere Tenant certificate to Azure Device Provisioning Service

1. Switch back to the Azure web portal.
2. Click on the Device Provisioning Service (**DPS**) resource link.
3. Click **Certificates** from the Device Provisioning Service sidebar menu.
4. Click **+ Add**.
    ![](resources/dps-certificate-add.png)
5. Name your certificate, and then select the **CAcertificate.cer** file you downloaded in the previous step to upload into the device provisioning service.
6. Click **Save**.
    ![](resources/dps-certificate-upload.png)


### Verify the uploaded certificate

1. Click on the certificate you just uploaded to display the certificate details.
2. From the certificate details panel, scroll down and click **Generate Verification Code**.
3. Copy the verification code to the clipboard.

    ![](resources/dps-certificate-verify.png)

### Generate the verification certificate

1. Return to the Azure Sphere Developer Command Prompt.

2. Run the following command, replacing &lt;code&gt; with the **Verification Code** you just copied to the clipboard. This will generate a verification certificate that you need to upload to the Device Provisioning Service.

    ```bash
    azsphere ca-certificate download-proof --output ValidationCertification.cer --verificationcode <code>
    ```

### Upload the verification certificate

1. Return to the Azure web portal.
2. Click the **Verification Certificate** file selector icon.
3. From the file manager, select the **ValidationCertification.cer** certificate you generated in the previous step.
4. Click the **Verify** button.

    ![](resources/dps-certificate-verify-upload.png)

---

## Step 4: Create a Device Provisioning Service Enrollment Group

From the Azure Web portal.

1. Select **Manage Enrollments** from the Device Provisioning Service sidebar menu.
2. Click **+ Add enrollment group**.
3. Name the enrollment group.
4. Select the primary certificate you just uploaded.
5. Click Save.

    ![](resources/dps-enrollment-group-add.png)

---

## Step 5: Explicitly allow connections to Azure IoT Endpoints

Remember, applications on Azure Sphere are locked down by default, including hardware and network endpoints. You must explicitly allow connections to the network endpoints of your Azure IoT Hub **and** your Device Provisioning Service otherwise your Azure Sphere application will not be able to connect.

You must allow communications to the following **three** Azure IoT network endpoints:

1. The Device Provisioning Service **Global device endpoint**.
2. The Device Provisioning Service **Service endpoint**.
3. The IoT Hub **Hostname** endpoint.

Follow these steps:

1. Return to the Azure Web Portal.
2. Select **Overview** from the Device Provisioning Service sidebar menu.
3. Copy the Device Provisioning Service **Global device endpoint** URI to _Notepad_.
4. Copy the Device Provisioning Service **Service endpoint** URI to _Notepad_.
5. Copy the **ID Scope** to _Notepad_.
6. Click on the **Resource group URL** to return to the resource group.
    ![](resources/dps-overview.png)
7. Select the **IoT Hub** resource.
8. Copy the IoT Hub **Hostname** URL to _Notepad_.
    ![](resources/iot-hub-endpoint-url.png)

---

## Step 6: Get the Azure Sphere Tenant ID

We need the ID of the Azure Sphere Tenant that is now trusted by the Device Provisioning Service.

1. From the **Azure Sphere Developer Command Prompt**, run **```azsphere tenant show-selected```**.
    * The output of this command will look similar to the following.
        ```text
        Default Azure Sphere tenant ID is 'yourSphereTenant' (99999999-e021-43ce-9999-fa9999499994).
        ```
    * The **Tenant ID** is the numeric value inside the parentheses.
2. Copy the **Tenant ID** to _Notepad_ as you will need it soon.

---

## Open Lab 2

### Step 1: Start Visual Studio Code

![](resources/vs-code-start.png)

### Step 2: Open the lab project

1. Click **Open folder**.
2. Open the Azure-Sphere lab folder.
4. Open the **Lab_2_Send_Telemetry_to_Azure_IoT** folder.
5. Click **Select Folder** button to open the project.

### Step 3: Set your developer board configuration

These labs support developer boards from AVNET and Seeed Studio. You need to set the configuration that matches your developer board.

The default developer board configuration is for the AVENT Azure Sphere Starter Kit. If you have this board, there is no additional configuration required.

1. Open CMakeList.txt
	![](resources/vs-code-open-cmake.png)
2. Add a # at the beginning of the set AVNET line to disable it.
3. Uncomment the **set** command that corresponds to your Azure Sphere developer board.

	```text
	set(AVNET TRUE "AVNET Azure Sphere Starter Kit")                
	# set(SEEED_STUDIO_RDB TRUE "Seeed Studio Azure Sphere MT3620 Development Kit (aka Reference Design Board or rdb)")
	# set(SEEED_STUDIO_MINI TRUE "Seeed Studio Azure Sphere MT3620 Mini Dev Board")
	```	

4. Save the file. This will auto-generate the CMake cache.

### Step 4: Configure the Azure Sphere Application

1. Open the **app_manifest.json** file

    ![](resources/vs-code-open-app-manifest.png)

2. Update the Azure IoT Application connection properties.
    * Update **CmdArgs** with your Device Provisioning Service **ID Scope** you copied to Notepad.
    * Update **DeviceAuthentication** with your **Azure Sphere Tenant ID**. Remember, this was the numeric value output from the ```azsphere tenant show-selected``` command that you copied to Notepad.

3. Update the network endpoints **AllowedConnections** with your Azure IoT Hub and Device Provisioning endpoint URLs you copied to Notepad.

4. **Review** your updated manifest_app.json file. It should look similar to the following.

    ```json
    {
        "SchemaVersion": 1,
        "Name": "AzureSphereIoTCentral",
        "ComponentId": "25025d2c-66da-4448-bae1-ac26fcdd3627",
        "EntryPoint": "/bin/app",
        "CmdArgs": [ "0ne0099999D" ],
        "Capabilities": {
            "Gpio": [
                "$BUTTON_A",
                "$BUTTON_B",
                "$LED2",
                "$NETWORK_CONNECTED_LED",
                "$LED_RED",
                "$LED_GREEN",
                "$LED_BLUE"
            ],
            "I2cMaster": [ "$I2cMaster2" ],
            "PowerControls": [ "ForceReboot" ],
            "AllowedConnections": [
                "global.azure-devices-provisioning.net",
                "<Your Device Provisioning Service Endpoint>",
                "<Your Azure IoT Hub Endpoint>"
            ],
            "DeviceAuthentication": "9d7e79eb-9999-43ce-9999-fa8888888894"
        },
        "ApplicationType": "Default"
    }
    ```

5. **IMPORTANT**. Copy the contents of your **app_manifest.json** file to **Notepad** as you will need this configuration information for the next labs.

---

## Understanding the Azure Sphere Application

### Sending telemetry to Azure IoT Hub

Open **main.c**, and scroll down to the **MeasureSensorHandler** function.

>Pro Tip. Use **Go to Symbol in Editor** in Visual Studio Code. Use the keyboard shortcut <kbd>Ctrl+Shift+O</kbd> and start typing *measure*. You will often see a function name listed twice in the dropdown. The first is the [function prototype declaration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Function_prototype#:~:text=In%20computer%20programming%2C%20a%20function,but%20omits%20the%20function%20body.), and the second is the implementation of the function.

![](resources/vs-code-function-navigate-measure-sensor-telemetry.png)

In the **MeasureSensorHandler** function there is a call to **SendMsgLedOn(msgBuffer);**.

```c
/// <summary>
/// Read sensor and send to Azure IoT
/// </summary>
static void MeasureSensorHandler(EventLoopTimer* eventLoopTimer)
{
	static int msgId = 0;
	static LP_ENVIRONMENT environment;
	static const char* MsgTemplate = "{ \"Temperature\": \"%3.2f\", \"Humidity\": \"%3.1f\", \"Pressure\":\"%3.1f\", \"Light\":%d, \"MsgId\":%d }";

	if (ConsumeEventLoopTimerEvent(eventLoopTimer) != 0)
	{
		lp_terminate(ExitCode_ConsumeEventLoopTimeEvent);
		return;
	}

	if (lp_readTelemetry(&environment))
	{
		if (snprintf(msgBuffer, JSON_MESSAGE_BYTES, MsgTemplate, environment.temperature, environment.humidity, environment.pressure, environment.light, msgId++) > 0)
		{
			SendMsgLedOn(msgBuffer);
		}
	}
}
```

Function **SendMsgLedOn** will turn on the send message LED, then **SendMsg(message)** is called to send a JSON formatted message to Azure IoT Hub.

```c
/// <summary>
/// Turn on LED2, send message to Azure IoT and set a one shot timer to turn LED2 off
/// </summary>
static void SendMsgLedOn(char* message)
{
	lp_gpioOn(&sendMsgLed);
	Log_Debug("%s\n", message);
	lp_sendMsg(message);
	lp_setOneShotTimer(&sendMsgLedOffOneShotTimer, &sendMsgLedBlinkPeriod);
}
```

---

## Deploying the Application to Azure Sphere

### Step 1: Start the app build deploy process

1. Ensure main.c is open.
2. Select **CMake: [Debug]: Ready** from the Visual Studio Code Status Bar.

	![](resources/vs-code-start-application.png)

3. From Visual Studio Code, press <kbd>F5</kbd> to build, deploy, start, and attached the remote debugger to the application now running the Azure Sphere device.

### Step 2: View debugger output

1. Open the Visual Studio Code **Output** tab to view the output from **Log_Debug** statements in the code.

	> Pro Tip. You can open the output window by using the Visual Studio Code <kbd>Ctrl+K Ctrl+H</kbd> shortcut or click the **Output** tab.
2. You will see the device negotiating security, and then it will start sending telemetry to Azure IoT Hub.

    > You may see a couple of *ERROR: failure to create IoTHub Handle* messages displayed. These messages occur while the connection to Azure IoT is being negotiated.

---

## Expected Device Behaviour

### Avnet Azure Sphere MT3620 Starter Kit

![](resources/avnet-azure-sphere.jpg)

1. The blue LED will start to blink.
2. LED3 will turn yellow when connected to Azure. 
3. Press **Button A** on the device to change the blink rate.

### Seeed Studio Azure Sphere MT3620 Development Kit

![](resources/seeed-studio-azure-sphere-rdb.jpg)

1. The green LED will start to blink.
2. The network LED will turn red when connected to Azure.
3. Press **Button A** on the device to change the blink rate.

### Seeed Studio MT3620 Mini Dev Board

![](resources/seeed-studio-azure-sphere-mini.png)

1. The green LED closest to the USB connector will start to blink.

---

## Step 3: View the device telemetry from the Azure Cloud Shell

1. You will need to know the name of the Azure IoT Hub you created. You can get the name from the Azure web portal.
    ![](resources/azure-iot-resources.png)
2. Open the Azure Cloud shell at [https://shell.azure.com](https://shell.azure.com).
3. In the Cloud Shell, run the [az extension add](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/extension?view=azure-cli-latest&WT.mc_id=julyot-azd-dglover) command to add the Microsoft Azure IoT Extension to your CLI shell. The IoT Extension adds IoT Hub, IoT Edge, and IoT Device Provisioning Service (DPS) specific commands to Azure CLI.
    ```bash
    az extension add --name azure-iot
    ```
4. Start the IoT Hub Events Monitor with the following command. Be sure to use your IoT Hub name.
    ```bash
    az iot hub monitor-events --hub-name {your IoT Hub name}
    ```
5. Observe telemetry in the cloud. The output will be similar to the following screen.
    ![](resources/iot-hub-monitor-events.png)
6. Use <kbd>ctrl+c</kbd> to stop the event monitor.

---

## In Review

We learned the following:

1. How to create Azure IoT Hub and Device Provisioning Services.
2. Enabling trust between your Azure Sphere Tenant and the Device Provisioning Service for automatic device enrollment.
3. Explicitly allowing connections to Azure IoT endpoints.
4. Configuring the Azure Sphere Application to connect to Azure IoT Hub.

---

## Close Visual Studio

Now close **Close Visual Studio**.

---

## Finished 完了 fertig finito समाप्त terminado

Congratulations you have finished Lab 2.

![](resources/finished.jpg)

---

**[NEXT](../Lab_3_Control_Device_with_Device_Twins/README.md)**

---
